Tools in Data Science - Project 1
Deadline: Thu, Oct 31, 2024, 11:59 PM GMT+5:30
You are logged in as 21f1004719@ds.study.iitm.ac.in.

Mention Quiz ID: Bangalore:100 on Discourse when asking for help.

You have no previous submissions.
Using the GitHub API, scrape all users in the city of Bangalore with over 100 followers, and their repositories.

Create a GitHub repo with these files in the main branch:

users.csv. See below. Use the SAME values as in the API response. For booleans, use true and false and empty strings for null.
repositories.csv. See below. Use the SAME values as in the API response. For booleans, use true and false and empty strings for null.
README.md. See below.
Optional but recommended: your code and/or spreadsheet, in whichever language you analyzed the data in.
users.csv has following information about each user in Bangalore with over 100 followers, with fields:

login: Their Github user ID
name: Their full name
company: The company they work at. Clean up company names. At least make sure:
They're trimmed of whitespace
Leading @ symbol is stripped (Note: ONLY the first one is stripped)
They are converted to UPPERCASE
location: The city they are in
email: Their email address
hireable: Whether they are open to being hired
bio: A short bio about them
public_repos: The number of public repositories they have
followers: The number of followers they have
following: The number of people they are following
created_at: When they joined Github
repositories.csv has these users' public repositories. For each user in users.csv, fetch up to the 500 most recently pushed repositories, with fields:

login: The Github user ID (login) of the owner, which, BTW, is not directly in the API response.)
full_name: Full name of the repository
created_at: When the repository was created
stargazers_count: Number of stars the repository has
watchers_count: Number of watchers the repository has
language: The programming language the repository is written in
has_projects: Whether the repository has projects enabled
has_wiki: Whether the repository has a wiki
license_name: Name of the license the repository is under (This is under license.key)
README.md must begin with 3 bullet points. Each bullet must be one sentence no more than 50 words.

An explanation of how you scraped the data
The most interesting and surprising fact you found after analyzing the the data
An actionable recommendation for developers based on your analysis
Your peers will rank your README.md subjectively. You can add anything else you like in the README.md but your peers will only focus on the 3 bullet points.

We'll distribute 5 repos to each peer to rank based on:

Whose PROCESS of analysis looks best to you? (Peers wil rank from 1 - best to 5 - worst)
Whose RESULTS did you find most interesting? (Peers wil rank from 1 - best to 5 - worst)
Peer scores are calculated as follows:

PROCESS SCORE = 2% of project grade for rank 1, 1.5% for rank 2, 1% for rank 3, 0.5% for rank 4, 0% for rank 5
RESULT SCORE = 2% of project grade for rank 1, 1.5% for rank 2, 1% for rank 3, 0.5% for rank 4, 0% for rank 5
Paste the link to your GitHub repo here. It should look like this: https://github.com/[login]/[repository]
Your GitHub repo URL
https://github.com/rebornphoenix01/TDSProject1
Correct!
Now, answer these questions using your dataset. Each correct answer gets 1%.

1. Who are the top 5 users in Bangalore with the highest number of followers? List their login in order, comma-separated.
Users
krishnaik06,championswimmer,arpitbbhayani,manjunath5496,tanaypratap
Correct!
2. Who are the 5 earliest registered GitHub users in Bangalore? List their login in ascending order of created_at, comma-separated.
Users
anandology,irfn,jace,abhisek,abhin4v
Correct!
3. What are the 3 most popular license among these users? Ignore missing licenses. List the license_name in order, comma-separated.
Licenses
mit,apache-2.0,other
Correct!
4. Which company do the majority of these developers work at?
Company (cleaned up as explained above)
GOOGLE
Correct!
5. Which programming language is most popular among these users?
Language
JavaScript
Correct!
6. Which programming language is the second most popular among users who joined after 2020?
Language
HTML
Correct!
7. Which language has the highest average number of stars per repository?
Language
Pascal
Correct!
8. Let's define leader_strength as followers / (1 + following). Who are the top 5 in terms of leader_strength? List their login in order, comma-separated.
User login
krishnaik06,Hack-with-Github,laxmimerit,tanaypratap,abhishh1
Correct!
9. What is the correlation between the number of followers and the number of public repositories among users in Bangalore?
Correlation between followers and repos (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 0.123 or -0.123)
0.191
Correct!
10. Does creating more repos help users get more followers? Using regression, estimate how many additional followers a user gets per additional public repository.
Regression slope of followers on repos (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 0.123 or -0.123)
2.348
Correct!
11. Do people typically enable projects and wikis together? What is the correlation between a repo having projects enabled and having wiki enabled?
Correlation between projects and wiki enabled (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 0.123 or -0.123)
NaN
Correct!
12. Do hireable users follow more people than those who are not hireable?
Average of following per user for hireable=true minus the average following for the rest (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 12.345 or -12.345)
NaN
Correct!
13. Some developers write long bios. Does that help them get more followers? What's the impact of the length of their bio (in Unicode words, split by whitespace) with followers? (Ignore people without bios)
Regression slope of followers on bio word count (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 12.345 or -12.345)
0.301
Correct!
14. Who created the most repositories on weekends (UTC)? List the top 5 users' login in order, comma-separated
Users login
FarhaKousar1601, sunilkumarc, Nasruddin, avinassh, agbilotia1998
Incorrect. Try again.
15. Do people who are hireable share their email addresses more often?
[fraction of users with email when hireable=true] minus [fraction of users with email for the rest] (to 3 decimal places, e.g. 0.123 or -0.123)
NaN
Correct!
16. Let's assume that the last word in a user's name is their surname (ignore missing names, trim and split by whitespace.) What's the most common surname? (If there's a tie, list them all, comma-separated, alphabetically)
Most common surname(s)
Kumar,Singh
Correct!